Famous scientist introduced : 

EF code's 12 rules 

If your database follows above 12 rules then it is a relational database management system.

RDBMS : Relational Database management system

During 1980's majorly data used to store on MYSQL and Postgresql.

Story of mysql 

mysql developed by michael widenius computer engineer 

Its name is introduced with her daughters name :

he has 3 daughters named as my-> eldest , max ->  , maria

MYSQL , MAXDB , MARIADB

MYSQL was acquired by SUN microsystems.

NOSQL data base types:

What does it means ?
Not Only SQL , much more.
Its introduced in 2000

4 types majorly

-Document database (Mongodb)
-key value database ()
-graph database
-wide column database
-multi model database (multi )


It was started on 2007 but popular in 2009
At the same time node js is also popular ,
mongodb and node js go hand in hand , like they made for each other, there is a good bond with them

it uses json same like json is being also handles by node js its amazing

History of mongodb 

developed by company named as 10gen
mongodb came from humoungous which means huge and gigantic
suppose to hold huge amount of data , 
does not have fixed schema
after they change their company name as mongodb Inc.

Mongodb is flexible and developer friendly.
It does not have have a rigid contract.
Strong compatability with node js.
Documents are mapped to JSON.
Increases the developer productivity.
Databases are also developed by various prog lang like c++. js, python etc

They are simply the code running and do certain the manipulations and can do your stuffs.


RDBMS VS NOSQL

RDBMS 
Data is stored on relations - rows and columns
Just like an xl sheet.
They can have related data using the concept of foreign key unique id.
We need to perform joins

Users
id=unique
id,fname,lname,phone,city
1,praveen,sunhare,808, indore
2,niraj,sunhare,9522,ujjain

Hobby
id=unique userid = foreign key which mapped from user table to hobby
id,userid,Hobby
1,1,Gardening
2,1,Reading
3,1,Writing
4,2,Drinking alcohol

 
javascript Object = json = document in mongodb 

We have collection 
for storing one row we need to create a document 

keys = fields 
value = data of specific type you want to store

there is no need to normalize the data in NOSQL
you dont need to performs joins in mongodb


{
    _id:'unique',
    name:'praveen sunhare',
    hobbies:['Gardening','Painting','Driving'],
    city:'Indore'
}
JSON and js object is a best part for a web apps.

RDBMS 

Data is stored on table,rows and columns.
Data is stored in a structure format
There is a fixed schema
MYSQL
Tough horizonal scaling
Relational joins we need to performs using keys and joins
For read heavy applications, transactional workloads
eg banking applications

NOSQL
Data is stored in collection , consisting of a json object
they used unstructured format of data to store
their schema design is highly flexible
mongodb , neo4j cipher
easy to maintain horizonal scaling
nested relationship can be easily established
real time , big data, distributed computing
eg real time analytics, social media

Read for uber schemaless architecture